You can't find that in your pack.
 into the leftmost open slot.
look
  You may merely 'look' to examine the room, or you may 'look <subject>' (such as 'look chair') to examine something specific.
go
  You may 'go <exit>' to travel in that direction (such as 'go west'), or you may merely '<exit>' (such as 'west').
inv
  To see the contents of your inventory, merely 'inv'.
take
  You may 'take <item>' (such as 'take large rock').
drop
  To drop something in your inventory, you may 'drop <item>'.
use
  You may activate or otherwise apply an item with 'use <item>'.
You aren't sure how to use that.
Chiseled on the wall of one of the passageways, you see:

   
You're not sure what to do with the coin.


You take note of this and keep walking.

You find yourself writing 


After a few moments, you find yourself back on solid ground and a little disoriented.

A strange, electronic voice is projected into your mind:

  "Miscalibration detected!  Aborting teleportation!"

Nothing else seems to happen.

You light your lantern.

I don't understand; try 'help' for instructions.
A strange, electronic voice is projected into your mind:

  "Unusual setting detected!  Starting confirmation process!  Estimated time to completion: 1 billion years."

" scrawled in charcoal on your forehead.

Congratulations; you have reached the end of the challenge!

You'll have to find something to put the oil into first.

You wake up on a sandy beach with a slight headache.  The last thing you remember is activating that teleporter... but now you can't find it anywhere in your pack.  Someone seems to have drawn a message in the sand here:

   
You fill your lantern with oil.  It seems to cheer up!

As you place the last coin, they are all released onto the floor.
You can't find that in your pack.
You see no such item.
As you place the last coin, you hear a click from the north door.
You have been eaten by a grue.
You gaze into the mirror, and you see yourself gazing back.  But wait!  It looks like someone wrote on your face while you were unconscious on the beach!  Through the mirror, you see 
" on the tablet.  Perhaps it's some kind of code?

You douse your lantern.

You see no such item here.
You activate the teleporter!  As you spiral through time and space, you think you see a pattern in the stars...

   


It begins to rain.  The message washes away.  You take a deep breath and feel firmly grounded in reality as the effects of the teleportation wear off.


Things of interest here:
